Last thing I wanted to show before
we move on, which is really cool and
people have asked about this is that and
this used to be much harder but
since node.js is just
a wrapper around V8.
Which is the same JavaScript engine that
chrome uses, you can actually very very
easily run your Node.js apps through
the devtools as well So I'll demo that.
So basically,
I'm just going to go to my terminal and
I'm going to kill the app that I
currently have and clear the page.
And then instead of running,
so I was running NPM start,
which is set to run node server.js.
This is how I've been running the app.
You can now go and you can change
it to do node dash dash inspect.
And do the same thing.
So it'll still load the site
just like normal, but
now when we open up the devtools, we'll
see this little node.js icon up here.
And if we click on that,
we can actually see it pops out its own.
Kind of got two devtools, right?
You've got devtools inception going on.
But you can click on like profile,
for example.
And you can do a full profile and
then we'll like refresh the app and
then we'll stop the profile or
something like that.
And so you can do all of these.
Let me move it over to the flame
chart that we're used to.
You can do these things.
You can actually watch my little Node
sample app started up right where it's
like it's a fast defy app.
And it's like walking ASDs as it walks the
mark down all this like really cool stuff.
So doing it with like a web server is like
pretty cool, but like one thing you could
do that would be really interesting
is if like you're using Web pack, and
your build times are slow.
You could actually do run node inspect and
then call web pack and then you could open
it up in here with a profile and
like do the same exact thing, right?
You can walk any kind of node
command line application and see it.
So I have like a little example
that I'll just do with you all, but
you can feel free to follow along with but
in the server.js file, I have this like
silly little function commented out,
which is FUBAR so you can uncomment it.
And then you can go up and
in the get lesson page,
you can uncomment it being called.
Now save that, now go back to my terminal,
and I'll start node with the inspect flag.
And then I'll go back to my devtools.
And I'll click the node icon again here
and I'll start recording then I'll go
back here and I'll refresh the page and
then I will stop recording.
And we can actually see like inside this
fast defy which is the framework I'm using
get this like FUBAR function,
so we're actually seeing like the node
server trying to process stuff.
And you can see it's it's reading and
markdown, and then it hits this thing.
So you can do a really nice,
just like we did with the front end code.
You can do it with all your back end code.
Here's my server.js file.
Here's how long it took to do
this silly thing, all that stuff.
So this is really cool,
because when you start looking into it,
there's like a lot of stuff that we
use day to day that's just a node app.
And so just the idea of being able to run,
the Chrome devtools that you're used
to on the node app can be really cool.